# 1.1 What is the Internet?
## 1.1.1 A Nuts-and-Bolts Description
- End systems are connected together by a network of **communication links** and **packet switches**.
- Many types of communication links made up of physical media, including coaxial cable, copper wire, optical fiber, and radio spectrum.
- Different links can transmit data at different rates, with the **transmission rate** of a link measures in bits/second.
  
  When one end system has data to send to another end system, the sending end system segments the data and adds header bytes to each segment. The resulting packages of info, known as **packets**, are then sent through the network to the destination end system, where they are reassembled into the original data.
  
  A packet switch takes a packet arriving on one of its incoming communication links and forwards that packet on one of its outgoing communication links. The two most prominant types of packet switches are routers and link-layer switches. Both types of switches forward packets toward there ultimate destinations.
  
- Link-layer switches are typically used in access networks while routers are typically used in the network core.
- The sequence of communication links and packet switches traversed by a packet frin the sending end system to the recieving end system is know as a **route** or **path** through the network.
- In an analogy, packets are like trucks, communication links are like highways and roads, packet switches are like intersections, and end systems are like buildings. Just like a truck taking a path through the transportation network, a packet takes a path through a computer network.

- End systems access the internet through **Internet Service Providers (ISPs)**.
- End systems, packet switches, and other pieces of the internet run **protocols**. These control the sending and recieving of info within the internet.
- The **Transmission Control Protocol (TCP)** and the **Internet Protocol (IP)** are two of the most important protocols.
- The **IP** specifies the format of the packets that are sent and recieved among routers and end systems.

When devloping protocols, its important that everyone agrees onw hat each one does so that people can create systems and products that work well together. This is where we get **standards**.
- **Internet standards**: Developed by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).
- The IETF standards documents are called **requests for comments (RFCs)**.
- **RFCs**: Define protocols such as TCP, IP, HTTP(web), and SMTP(email).
- **EXAMPLE:** Postal protocol for sending a letter. The rules are you must put the letter in an envelope, write info on it, and then put the letter into a mail box.

## 1.1.2 A Service Description
- **Distributed Applications**: Applications which involve multiple end systems exchanging data with one another.

How does one program running on one end system instruct the internet to deliver data to another program running on another end system?
- End systems attached to the internet provide a **socket interface** which specifies how a program running on one end system asks the internet infastructure to deliver data to a specific destination running on another end system.
- This internet socket interface is a set of ruls that a sending program must ollow so that the internet can deliver the data to the destination.

## 1.1.3 What is a Protocol?
**EXAMPLE:** In face to face human communication we have protocols. Such as if we are in class and are confused, we raise our hand (transmitting a message to the teacher), the teacher replies "yes" (a transmitted message meaning you can ask your question (transmitting your question to the teacher), the teacher then answers your question (transmitting this information back to you). Now this is a protocol and it is important that both end systems, in this case the student and the teacher, are running the same protocol. Say the student and teacher were running different protocols in this situation, say the teacher didn't know what a raised hand meant? Then this whole system would fall apart. It takes two (or more) communicating entities running the same protocol in order to accomplish a task.

The book also lists a similar example explaining how communication with a web server works. It works similar to the example above with communication happening back and forth between your computer and the web server.

- A **protocol** defines the format and the order of messages exchanged between two or more communicating entities, as well as the actions taken on the transmission and/or receipt of a message or other event.


# 1.2 The Network Edge
- End systems are also reffered to as hosts because they host application programs.
- Hosts are sometimes further divided into two catagories: **clients** and **servers**.
- **clients**: The desktops, laptops, etc.
- **servers**: Tend to be more powerful machines that store and distribute web pages, stream video, etc.
- Most servers now reside in large **data centers**.
## 1.2.1 Access Networks
- **Access Network**: The network that physically connects an end system to the first router (known as the edge router) on a path from the end system to any other distant end system.

### Home Access: DSL, Cable, FTTH, and 5G Fixed Wireless
- The two most prevelant types of broadband residential access are **digital subscriber line (DSL)** and cable.
- A customer using DSL's DSL modem uses the existing telephone line to exchange data with a digital subscriber's line access multiplexer (DSLAM) located in teh central office. The home's DSL modem takes digital data and translates it to high-frequency tones for transmission over telephone wires to the CO, the analog signals from many such homes are translated back into digital format at the DSLAM.
- While DSL makes use of existing phone lines, **cable internet access** makes use of the cable tv company's existing cable tv infastructure. Fiber optics connect the cable head end to neighborhood-level junctions, from here coaxial cable is used to reach individual houses. Since both these types of wire are used in this system, it is referred to as hybrid fiber coax (HFC).

Cable internet access requires special modems, called cable modems. Typically an external device connected to the home PC through an ethernet port. At the cable head end, the cable modem termination system (CMTS) serves a similar function as the DSLAM - turning the analog signal sent from the cable modem back into digital format.
- Cable modems divide the HFC network into two channels, a downstream and an upstream channel. Every packet sent by the head end travels downstream on every link to every home. Every packet sent by a home travels upstream to the head end.

### Access in the Enterprise (and home): Ethernet and WiFI
- Local area network (LAN) used to connect an end system to the edge router.

## 1.2.2 Physical Media
- HFC uses a combination of fiber and coaxial cable. DSL and Ethernet use copper wire. Mobile access networks use the radio spectrum. 
- Examples of physical medium include twisted-pair copper wire, coaxial cable, multimode fiber-optic cable, terrestrial radio spectrum, and satallite radio spectrum.
- Physical media fall into two catagories: **guided media** and **unguided media**.
- **Guided Media**: Waves are guided along a solid medium, such as fiber-optic cable, a twisted-pair copper wire, or a coaxial cable.
- **Unguided Media**: Waves propogate in the atmosphere and in outer space, such as in a wireless LAN or a digital satallite channel.

### Twisted-Pair Copper Wire
- Least expensive and most commonly used guided transmission medium.
- Wires are twisted together to reduce the electrical interference from similar pairs close by. 

### Coaxial Cable
- Consists of two copper conductors, but the two conductors are concentric rather than parallel. 
- With this construction and special insularion and shielding, it can achieve high data transmission rates.
- Can be used as a guided shared medium. Meaning a number of end systems can be connected directly to the cable with each of the end systems receiving whatever is sent by the other end systems.

### Fiber Optics
- A thing, flexible medium that conducts pulses of light, with each pulse representing a bit. Can support tremendous bit rates, hundreds of gb a second.
- High cost which is why they aren't used for short distances.

### Terrestrial Radio Channels
- Carry signals in the electromagnetic spectrum. Attractive medium because they require no physical wire to be installed.

### Satellite Radio Channels
- Links two or more Earth based microwave transmitter/recievers known as ground stations. The satellite recieves transmissions on one frequency band, regenerates the signal using a repeater, and transmits the signal on another frequency.
- **Geostationary satellites**: Permanently remain above the same spot of Earth. Achieved by placing the satellite in orbit at 36,000 kilo-meters above Earth. This distance produces a delay of 280 milliseconds.
- **Low-earth orbiting (LEO) satellites**: Do not remain above one spot of Earth. They rotate around the Earth and may communicate with eachother, as well as ground stations. To provide continuous service to areas, multiple need to be placed into orbit. May be used for internet access in the future.


# 1.3 The Network Core
## 1.3.1 Packet Switching
- In a network application, end systems exchange **messages** with eachother.
- Messages can contain anything the application designer wants. They may perform a control function or can contain data.
- To send a message from a source end system to a destination end system, the source breaks it into smaller chunks of data known as **packets**.
- Between the source and destination, each packet travels through communication links and **packet switches** (two dominant types: **routers** and **link-layer switches**.
- Packets are transmitted over each communication link at a rate equal to the full transmission rate of the link. So if a source or a packet switch is sending a packets of *L bits* over a link with a transmission rate *R bits/sec*, then the time to transmit is *L/R seconds*.

### Store-and-Forward Transmission
- Most packet switches use **store-and-forward transmission** at the inputs to the links. This means that a packet switch must revive the entire packet before it can begin to transmit the first bit of the packet onto the outbound link.

### Queuing Delays and Packet Loss
- Each packet switch has multiple links attached to it. For each link, the packet switch has an **output buffer**, which stores packets that the router is about to send into that link.
- The output buffer plays a key role in packet switching. If a packet arrives while the link is busy, the packet must wait int he output buffer. This is a **queuing delay**.
- If the buffer is completely full then **packet loss** will occur as the arriving packet or an already-queued packet will be dropped.

### Forwarding Tables and Routing Protocols
- A router takes a packet arriving on one of its attached communication links and forwards that packet onto another one of its attached communication links. But how does the router know which link it should be forwarded to?
- On the internet, every end system has an address called an IP address. When a source end system wants to send a packet to a destination end system, the source includes the destination's IP address in the packets header.
- Each router has a **forwarding table** which maps destination addresses to that router's outbound links.

## 1.3.2 Circuit Switching















