# 1.4 Delay, Loss, and Throughput in Packet-Switched Networks

## 1.4.1 Overview of Delay in Packet-Switched Network:
- Packet suffers from several types of delays at each node along its path from host to detination end system.
- The most important delays are **nodal processing delay, queuing delay, transmission delay, and propogation delay**.
- Together these delays accumulate a **total nodal delay**. 

### Processing Delay
- The time required to examine the packet's header and determine where to direct the packet.
### Queuing Delay
- The time a packet waits to be transmitted onto the link.
### Transmission Delay
- Denote the length of a packet to be L bits and denote the transmission rate from router A to B to be *R bits/sec*. The transmission rate would be *L/R*.
### Propogation Delay
- The time required to propogate fromt he beginning of the link to router B. The propogation depends on the physical medium of the link.


- Total delay given by Dnodal = Dproc + Dqueue + Dtrans + Dprop.


## 1.4.2 Queuing Delay and Packet Loss
- Let *a* denote the average rate at which packets arrive at the queue. *R* is the transmission rate, the rate at which bits are pushed out of the queue. Also, suppose that all packets are *L* bits. Then the average rate at which bits arrive at the queue is *La bits/sec*. The ratio *La/R* i called the **traffic intensity**. If *La/R > 1*, then the average rate at which bits arrive exceeds the rate at which bits can be transmitted from the queue therefore the queue will constantly increase in size.

### Packet Loss
- A queue has a finite capacity. If a packet arrives and there is no place to store the packet, the router will drop the packet. 

## 1.4.3 End-to-End Delay
- Suppose there are N - 1 routers between the source and destination host. Also suppose there is no queuing delay, the processing delay at each router and at the source host is *Dproc*, the transmission rate out of each router and out of the source host is *R bits/sec*, and the propogation on each link is *Dprop*.
- The nodal delays accumulate and give an end-to-end delay: *Dend-to-end = N (Dproc + Dtrans + Dprop)*. Where again, *Dtrans = L/R*.

### traceroute
- 2  j-cs-gw-int-10-240.cs.umass.edu (10.119.240.254) 1.296 ms 1.276 ms 1.245 ms
- column 1: *2 -- number of the router along the route*.
- column 2: *j-cs-gw-int-10-240.cs.umass.edu -- Name of the router*.
- column 3: *(10.119.240.254) -- Address of the router*.
- column 4, 5, 6: *1.296 ms 1.276 ms 1.245 ms -- round-trip delays for three experiments*
- If the source recieves fewer than three messages from any given router (due to packet loss), an asterisk is placed instead of a time in ms.

## 1.4.4 Throughput in Computer Networks
- Another critical performance measure in computer networks is end-to-end throughput.
- Consider transferring a large file from Host A to Host B. The **instantaneous throughput** at any instant of time is the rate *bits/sec* at which Host B is revieving the file. If the file consists of *F bits* and the transfer takes *T seconds* for Host B to recieve all F bits, then the **average throughput** of the file transfer is *F/T bits/sec*.


# 1.5 Protocol Layers and Their Service Models
## 1.5.1 Layered Architecture
- For large and complex systems that are constantly being updates, layering makes it so implementation within a layer can be changed without affecting other components of the overall system.

### Protocol Layering
- To provide structure to the design of network protocols, network designers organize protocols into **layers**.
- Each protocol belongs to a layer.
- A layer offers **services** to the layer above it, this is the **service model** of the layer.
- Each layer provides its service by (1) performing certain actions within that layer and by (2) using the services of the layer directly below it.
- When taken together, the protocols of the various layers are called the **protocol stack**. The internet protocol stack consists of five layers: *the physical, link, network, transport, and application layers*.

#### Application Layer
- This is where network applications and their application-layer protocols reside. Includes:
    - HTTP protocol -- Provides for Web document request and transfer.
    - SMTP protocol -- provides for the transfer of email messages.
    - FTP Protocol -- provides for the transfer of file between two end-systems.
- An application-layer protocol is distributes over multiple end systems, with the application in one end system using the protocol to exchange packets of information with the application in another end system. Refer to this packet of info at the application layer as a **message**.

#### Transport Layer
- This layer transports application-layer messages between application endpoints. In the Internet, there are two transport protocols, TCP and UDP, either of which can transport application-layer messages.
- TCP provides a connection-oriented service to its applications. Breaks long messages into shorter segments and provides a congestion-control mechanism so that a source throttles its transmission rate when the network is congested.
- UDP provides a connectionless service to its applications. Provides no reliability, no flow control, and no congestion control. Will refer to a transport-layer packet as a **segment**.

#### Network Layer
- Responsible for moving network-layer packets known as **datagrams** from one host to another.
- The internet transport-layer protocol (TCP or UDP) in a source host passes a transport-layer segment and a destination address to the network layer. The network layer then provides the service of delivering the segment to the transport-layer in the destination host.
- The Internet's network layer includes the IP protocol, which defines the fields in the datagram as well as how the end systems and routers act on these fields. 

#### Link Layer
- The Internets network layer routes a datagram through a series of routers between the source and destination. To move a packet from one node to the next in the route, the network layer relies on the services of the link layer. At each node, the network layer passes the datagram down to the link layer, which delivers the datagram to the next node along the route. At this next node, the link layer passes the datagram up to the network layer.
- Refer to link-layer packets as **frames**.

#### Physical Layer
- While the job of the link-layer is to move entire frames from one network element to an adjacent network element, the job of the physical layer is to move the individual bits within the frame from one node to the next. The protocols in this layer are again link dependent and further depend on the actual transmission medium of the link (twisted-pair, copper wire, FTTH).


## 1.5.2 Encapsulation
- At the sending host, an **application-layer message** is passed to the transport layer. In the simplest case, the transport layer appends additional information called the transport-layer header information that will be used by the reciever-side transport layer.
- The application layer message and the transport layer header info together consisture the **transport-layer segment**.
- Transport layer then passes the segment to the network layer which adds network-layer header indo such as source and destination end system addresses, creating a **network-layer datagram**.
- This is then passed to the link layer which adds its own link-layer header info and creates a **link-layer frame**.
- So we see that each layer, a packet has two types of fields: header fields and a **payload field** which is typically a packet from the layer above.


















